CONTRIBUTING.asciidoc, before:

= Contributing to ipa
:toc:

== Installation

[source]
----
git clone https://github.com/SUSE/ipa.git
cd ipa

# Activate virtual Environment then install
# ipa and dev dependences in editable mode
pip install -e .[dev]
----

ipa is now installed in the active virtual environment in development
mode.

== Dev Requirements

* bumpversion
* pip>=7.0.0

== Testing Requirements

* coverage
* flake8
* mock
* pytest-cov
* vcrpy

== Contribution Checklist

* All patches must be signed. <<Signing Commits>>
* All contributed code must conform to flake8. <<Code Style>>
* All new code contributions must be accompanied by a test.
** Tests must pass and coverage remain above 90%. <<Unit & Integration Tests>>
* Follow Semantic Versioning. <<Versions & Releases>>

== Versions & Releases

*ipa* adheres to Semantic versioning; see http://semver.org/ for details.

link:https://pypi.python.org/pypi/bumpversion/[bumpversion] is used
for release version management, and is configured in `setup.cfg`:

----
bumpversion major|minor|patch
git push && git push --tags
----

== Unit & Integration Tests

All tests should pass and test coverage should remain above 90%.

The tests and coverage can be run directly via pytest.

----
pytest --cov=ipa
----

== Testing with tox

=== Requirements

* tox
* tox-pyenv (testing multiple Python versions 3.4+)

=== Setup

* Install tox
+
pip install .[tox]

* Setup pyenv
+
See the link:https://github.com/pyenv/pyenv#installation[pyenv doc] for more
info.

* Run tox
+
----
tox (test all versions 3.4+)

# or
tox -e py{version}
tox -e py36
----

== Code Style

Source should pass flake8 and pep8 standards.

----
flake8 ipa
----

== Man Pages

If the CLI is changed the man pages can be auto-generated.

* Install click-man
+
----
pip install click-man
----

* Generate man pages
+
----
python3 setup.py \
  --command-packages=click_man.commands man_pages \
  --target man/man1
----

== Signing Commits

The repository and the code base patches sent for inclusion must be GPG signed.
See the GitHub article,
link:https://help.github.com/articles/signing-commits-using-gpg/[Signing commits using GPG],
for more information.

Commit message:

Remove autotag from bumpversion config.
- Bumpversion does not create annotated tags so disable tagging.
- Update docs with steps to create annotated tag with new version.

CONTRIBUTING.asciidoc, after:

= Contributing to ipa
:toc:

== Installation

[source]
----
git clone https://github.com/SUSE/ipa.git
cd ipa

# Activate virtual Environment then install
# ipa and dev dependences in editable mode
pip install -e .[dev]
----

ipa is now installed in the active virtual environment in development
mode.

== Dev Requirements

* bumpversion
* pip>=7.0.0

== Testing Requirements

* coverage
* flake8
* mock
* pytest-cov
* vcrpy

== Contribution Checklist

* All patches must be signed. <<Signing Commits>>
* All contributed code must conform to flake8. <<Code Style>>
* All new code contributions must be accompanied by a test.
** Tests must pass and coverage remain above 90%. <<Unit & Integration Tests>>
* Follow Semantic Versioning. <<Versions & Releases>>

== Versions & Releases

*ipa* adheres to Semantic versioning; see http://semver.org/ for details.

link:https://pypi.python.org/pypi/bumpversion/[bumpversion] is used
for release version management, and is configured in `setup.cfg`:

----
bumpversion major|minor|patch
git push
----

Bumpversion will create a commit with version updated in all locations. The
annotatated tag is created separately.

----
git tag -a v{version}
# git tag -a v0.0.1

# Create a message with the changes since last release and push tags.

git push --tags
----

== Unit & Integration Tests

All tests should pass and test coverage should remain above 90%.

The tests and coverage can be run directly via pytest.

----
pytest --cov=ipa
----

== Testing with tox

=== Requirements

* tox
* tox-pyenv (testing multiple Python versions 3.4+)

=== Setup

* Install tox
+
pip install .[tox]

* Setup pyenv
+
See the link:https://github.com/pyenv/pyenv#installation[pyenv doc] for more
info.

* Run tox
+
----
tox (test all versions 3.4+)

# or
tox -e py{version}
tox -e py36
----

== Code Style

Source should pass flake8 and pep8 standards.

----
flake8 ipa
----

== Man Pages

If the CLI is changed the man pages can be auto-generated.

* Install click-man
+
----
pip install click-man
----

* Generate man pages
+
----
python3 setup.py \
  --command-packages=click_man.commands man_pages \
  --target man/man1
----

== Signing Commits

The repository and the code base patches sent for inclusion must be GPG signed.
See the GitHub article,
link:https://help.github.com/articles/signing-commits-using-gpg/[Signing commits using GPG],
for more information.
