README.asciidoc, before:

= ipa

image:https://travis-ci.org/SUSE/ipa.svg?branch=master["Build Status", link="https://travis-ci.org/SUSE/ipa"]

*IPA* (Image Proofing App)

== overview

*IPA* provides a command line utility to test images in the
Public Cloud (AWS, Azure, GCE, etc.).

With *IPA* you can now test custom images in a provider agnostic way with one
tool and one API. In the first release, *IPA* supports the openSUSE and SLES
distributions. It also supports the three largest cloud providers
(AWS, Azure and GCE). However, it is intended to be distribution agnostic
and framework transparent so both are easily extensible.

For each distribution there are specific synchronization points that must be
provided. These currently include soft reboot and system update. The synch
points not only test functionality but also act as dividers to separate
distinct sections of a test suite. For example you can run a test to ensure
the proper repos exist before and after a system update. The system update
synch point will guarantee the order of tests. Speaking of tests, if you're
already familiar with Pytest conventions there's no need to learn a whole
new unit testing framework. *IPA* is written in Python and leverages the
Pytest framework through Testinfra.

== Installation

To install the package use the following commands as root:

[source]
----
zypper ar http://download.opensuse.org/repositories/Cloud:/Tools/<distribution>
zypper refresh
zypper in python3-ipa
----

== Requirements

* apache-libcloud
* azure-common
* azure-mgmt-compute
* azure-mgmt-network
* azure-mgmt-resource
* Click
* cryptography
* paramiko
* pycrypto
* pytest
* PyYaml
* testinfra

== Configuration

The framework configuration is ini format ~/.config/ipa/config. Anything
specific to the test framework can be found in this file. Thus anything
that is cloud framework independent such as the test dir and results dir.

[source,ini]
----
[ipa]
tests=~/ipa/tests/
results=~/ipa/results/

[ec2]
region=us-west-1
----

=== Azure Configuration

There is no additional configuration file used for Azure. All options
should be placed in the *ipa* config file.

=== EC2 Configuration

For testing EC2 instances *ipa* will use the ec2utils configuration file
located at ~/.ec2utils.conf. See
link:https://github.com/SUSE/Enceladus/tree/master/ec2utils[ec2utils] for an
example configuration file.

=== GCE Configuration

GCE uses service accounts for authentication. See
link:https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/access/create-enable-service-accounts-for-instances[GCE docs]
for more info on creating a service account json file. The file must include
a key pair for proper authentication. Additional configuration options can
be placed in the `gce` section of the `ipa` configuration file.

== Tests

*ipa* uses the Testinfra package for writing unit tests. Testinfra leverages
Pytest and provides modules such as Package, Process and Service to test the
state of images. See the
link:https://testinfra.readthedocs.io/en/latest/[Testinfra Docs] for more
information on writing infrastructure tests.

[NOTE]
====
*ipa* currently passes the Pytest option `-x` (stop on first failure) through
as `--early-exit`. If there's an interest or need for any other options/args
please submit an issue to link:https://github.com/SUSE/ipa/issues[Github].
====

== CLI Overview

The CLI provides multiple subcommands to initiate image testing:

`ipa test`::
Test image in the given framework using the supplied test files.

`ipa results`::
Invokes the default show subcommand `ipa results show 1`.

`ipa results clear`::
Clear the results from the history file.

`ipa results delete`::
Delete the specified history item from the history log.

`ipa results list`::
Display list of results history.

`ipa results show`::
Display the results or log file for a history item.

`ipa list`::
Print a list of test files or test cases.

== Issues/Enhancements

Please submit issues and requests to
link:https://github.com/SUSE/ipa/issues[Github].

== Contributing

Contributions to *ipa* are welcome and encouraged.
See link:CONTRIBUTING.asciidoc[CONTRIBUTING] for info on getting started.

== License

Copyright (c) 2017 SUSE LLC.

Distributed under the terms of GPL-3.0+ license, see
link:LICENSE[LICENSE] for details.

Commit message:

Add notes about Azure authentication.
Azure auth is now against ARM and using file based credentials

README.asciidoc, after:

= ipa

image:https://travis-ci.org/SUSE/ipa.svg?branch=master["Build Status", link="https://travis-ci.org/SUSE/ipa"]

*IPA* (Image Proofing App)

== overview

*IPA* provides a command line utility to test images in the
Public Cloud (AWS, Azure, GCE, etc.).

With *IPA* you can now test custom images in a provider agnostic way with one
tool and one API. In the first release, *IPA* supports the openSUSE and SLES
distributions. It also supports the three largest cloud providers
(AWS, Azure and GCE). However, it is intended to be distribution agnostic
and framework transparent so both are easily extensible.

For each distribution there are specific synchronization points that must be
provided. These currently include soft reboot and system update. The synch
points not only test functionality but also act as dividers to separate
distinct sections of a test suite. For example you can run a test to ensure
the proper repos exist before and after a system update. The system update
synch point will guarantee the order of tests. Speaking of tests, if you're
already familiar with Pytest conventions there's no need to learn a whole
new unit testing framework. *IPA* is written in Python and leverages the
Pytest framework through Testinfra.

== Installation

To install the package use the following commands as root:

[source]
----
zypper ar http://download.opensuse.org/repositories/Cloud:/Tools/<distribution>
zypper refresh
zypper in python3-ipa
----

== Requirements

* apache-libcloud
* azure-common
* azure-mgmt-compute
* azure-mgmt-network
* azure-mgmt-resource
* Click
* cryptography
* paramiko
* pycrypto
* pytest
* PyYaml
* testinfra

== Configuration

The framework configuration is ini format ~/.config/ipa/config. Anything
specific to the test framework can be found in this file. Thus anything
that is cloud framework independent such as the test dir and results dir.

[source,ini]
----
[ipa]
tests=~/ipa/tests/
results=~/ipa/results/

[ec2]
region=us-west-1
----

=== Azure Configuration

Azure uses service principals for authentication. See
link:https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/python/azure/python-sdk-azure-authenticate?view=azure-python#mgmt-auth-file[Azure docs]
for more info on creating a service principal json file. Additional
configuration options can be placed in the `azure` section of the
`ipa` configuration file.

=== EC2 Configuration

For testing EC2 instances *ipa* will use the ec2utils configuration file
located at ~/.ec2utils.conf. See
link:https://github.com/SUSE/Enceladus/tree/master/ec2utils[ec2utils] for an
example configuration file.

=== GCE Configuration

GCE uses service accounts for authentication. See
link:https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/access/create-enable-service-accounts-for-instances[GCE docs]
for more info on creating a service account json file. The file must include
a key pair for proper authentication. Additional configuration options can
be placed in the `gce` section of the `ipa` configuration file.

== Tests

*ipa* uses the Testinfra package for writing unit tests. Testinfra leverages
Pytest and provides modules such as Package, Process and Service to test the
state of images. See the
link:https://testinfra.readthedocs.io/en/latest/[Testinfra Docs] for more
information on writing infrastructure tests.

[NOTE]
====
*ipa* currently passes the Pytest option `-x` (stop on first failure) through
as `--early-exit`. If there's an interest or need for any other options/args
please submit an issue to link:https://github.com/SUSE/ipa/issues[Github].
====

== CLI Overview

The CLI provides multiple subcommands to initiate image testing:

`ipa test`::
Test image in the given framework using the supplied test files.

`ipa results`::
Invokes the default show subcommand `ipa results show 1`.

`ipa results clear`::
Clear the results from the history file.

`ipa results delete`::
Delete the specified history item from the history log.

`ipa results list`::
Display list of results history.

`ipa results show`::
Display the results or log file for a history item.

`ipa list`::
Print a list of test files or test cases.

== Issues/Enhancements

Please submit issues and requests to
link:https://github.com/SUSE/ipa/issues[Github].

== Contributing

Contributions to *ipa* are welcome and encouraged.
See link:CONTRIBUTING.asciidoc[CONTRIBUTING] for info on getting started.

== License

Copyright (c) 2017 SUSE LLC.

Distributed under the terms of GPL-3.0+ license, see
link:LICENSE[LICENSE] for details.
