docs/source/index.rst, before:

=================
IPA Documentation
=================

.. image:: https://www.travis-ci.com/SUSE-Enceladus/ipa.svg?branch=master
   :target: https://www.travis-ci.com/SUSE-Enceladus/ipa

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/python3-ipa.svg
   :target: https://pypi.org/project/python3-ipa/

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/l/python3-ipa.svg
   :target: https://pypi.org/project/python3-ipa/

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 3
   :hidden:

   Getting Started <start>
   Usage <usage>
   examples
   tests
   API <api>
   Modules <modules/ipa>

.. image:: /_images/logo.png

**IPA** provides a command line utility to test images in the Public
Cloud (AWS, Azure, GCE, etc.).

About
-----

With **IPA** you can now test custom images in a cloud framework agnostic way
with one tool and one API. In the first release, **IPA** supports the
openSUSE and SLES distributions. It also supports the three largest
cloud frameworks (AWS, Azure and GCE). However, it is intended to be
distribution agnostic and framework transparent so both are easily
extensible.

Overview
--------

The goal of **IPA** is to provide a unit test framework that can be used
to verify the actual state of custom public cloud images. To do this it
leverages two packages.

pytest
~~~~~~

Tests are written using the pytest framework.

The `pytest`_ framework makes it easy to write small tests, yet scales to
support complex functional testing for applications and libraries.

.. _pytest: https://docs.pytest.org/en/latest/

Testinfra
~~~~~~~~~~

Testinfra is a plugin for pytest which provides connection backends and
test modules such as File, Group, User, Package, Service, etc.

With `Testinfra`_ you can write unit tests in Python to test actual state
of your servers configured by management tools like Salt, Ansible,
Puppet, Chef and so on.

.. _Testinfra: https://testinfra.readthedocs.io/en/latest/

IPA
~~~

**IPA** leverages Testinfra as a unit test framework. It also provides
distribution classes and cloud framework classes.

Distribution Classes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Classes can be used to provide distribution specific testing. This
includes tests such as soft reboot (e.g. "shutdown -r now") and update.

The current supported distributions are:

* SLES
* openSUSE_Leap

In addition to soft reboot and update there is a built in test for 
hard reboot (framework reboot).

These tests are "synchronization points". The synch points not only test
functionality but also act as dividers to separate distinct sections of
a test suite.

By default pytest does not guarantee the order of tests. However, there
are cases where this is ideal when testing images. For example you 
can run an update then do a reboot to ensure an instance starts properly.

A test suite such as ['test_soft_reboot', 'test_sles', 'test_update',
'test_hard_reboot', 'test_sles_ec2'] will be broken into multiple pytest
invocations (lists are pytest invocations):

Soft reboot, ['test_sles'], update, hard reboot, ['test_sles_ec2']

The order of tests is guaranteed and the results will be agregated to
determine the status of a test run.

Cloud Framework Classes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The cloud framework classes contain methods necessary to interact with
instances/images in a given cloud framework.

Some of the required methods for cloud framework classes include:

* Launch instances
* Terminate instances
* Get instance status
* Get instance info
* Stop/Start/Reboot instances

The implementations are dependent on each CSP API (or Libcloud) and require
the CSP credentials to perform the necessary operations.

The current supported CSPs are:

* Azure
* EC2
* GCE
* SSH

The SSH class is generic and can be used for any accessible instance
that is running. There are no credentials required except the instance
needs the proper SSH User and SSH Key configured for access.

The SSH class cannot be used to test hard reboot (framework reboot) or
to launch/start/stop/terminate instances.

Contributing
------------

Contributions to **IPA** are welcome and encouraged. See `CONTRIBUTING`_ for
info on getting started.

.. _CONTRIBUTING: https://github.com/SUSE-Enceladus/ipa/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md

Issues/Enhancements
-------------------

Please submit issues and requests to `Github`_.

.. _Github: https://github.com/SUSE-Enceladus/ipa/issues

License
-------

Copyright (c) 2018 SUSE LLC.

Distributed under the terms of GPL-3.0+ license, see `LICENSE`_ for details.

.. _LICENSE: https://github.com/SUSE-Enceladus/ipa/blob/master/LICENSE

Commit message:

Rename ipa to img-proof.

docs/source/index.rst, after:

=======================
img-proof Documentation
=======================

.. image:: https://www.travis-ci.com/SUSE-Enceladus/img-proof.svg?branch=master
   :target: https://www.travis-ci.com/SUSE-Enceladus/img-proof

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/img-proof.svg
   :target: https://pypi.org/project/img-proof/

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/l/img-proof.svg
   :target: https://pypi.org/project/img-proof/

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 3
   :hidden:

   Getting Started <start>
   Usage <usage>
   examples
   tests
   API <api>
   Modules <modules/img_proof>

.. image:: /_images/logo.png

**img-proof** (IPA) provides a command line utility to test images in the Public
Cloud (AWS, Azure, GCE, etc.).

About
-----

With **img-proof** you can now test custom images in a cloud framework agnostic way
with one tool and one API. In the first release, **img-proof** supports the
openSUSE and SLES distributions. It also supports the three largest
cloud frameworks (AWS, Azure and GCE). However, it is intended to be
distribution agnostic and framework transparent so both are easily
extensible.

Overview
--------

The goal of **img-proof** is to provide a unit test framework that can be used
to verify the actual state of custom public cloud images. To do this it
leverages two packages.

pytest
~~~~~~

Tests are written using the pytest framework.

The `pytest`_ framework makes it easy to write small tests, yet scales to
support complex functional testing for applications and libraries.

.. _pytest: https://docs.pytest.org/en/latest/

Testinfra
~~~~~~~~~~

Testinfra is a plugin for pytest which provides connection backends and
test modules such as File, Group, User, Package, Service, etc.

With `Testinfra`_ you can write unit tests in Python to test actual state
of your servers configured by management tools like Salt, Ansible,
Puppet, Chef and so on.

.. _Testinfra: https://testinfra.readthedocs.io/en/latest/

img-proof
~~~~~~~~~

**img-proof** leverages Testinfra as a unit test framework. It also provides
distribution classes and cloud framework classes.

Distribution Classes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Classes can be used to provide distribution specific testing. This
includes tests such as soft reboot (e.g. "shutdown -r now") and update.

The current supported distributions are:

* SLES
* openSUSE_Leap

In addition to soft reboot and update there is a built in test for 
hard reboot (framework reboot).

These tests are "synchronization points". The synch points not only test
functionality but also act as dividers to separate distinct sections of
a test suite.

By default pytest does not guarantee the order of tests. However, there
are cases where this is ideal when testing images. For example you 
can run an update then do a reboot to ensure an instance starts properly.

A test suite such as ['test_soft_reboot', 'test_sles', 'test_update',
'test_hard_reboot', 'test_sles_ec2'] will be broken into multiple pytest
invocations (lists are pytest invocations):

Soft reboot, ['test_sles'], update, hard reboot, ['test_sles_ec2']

The order of tests is guaranteed and the results will be agregated to
determine the status of a test run.

Cloud Framework Classes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The cloud framework classes contain methods necessary to interact with
instances/images in a given cloud framework.

Some of the required methods for cloud framework classes include:

* Launch instances
* Terminate instances
* Get instance status
* Get instance info
* Stop/Start/Reboot instances

The implementations are dependent on each CSP API (or Libcloud) and require
the CSP credentials to perform the necessary operations.

The current supported CSPs are:

* Azure
* EC2
* GCE
* SSH

The SSH class is generic and can be used for any accessible instance
that is running. There are no credentials required except the instance
needs the proper SSH User and SSH Key configured for access.

The SSH class cannot be used to test hard reboot (framework reboot) or
to launch/start/stop/terminate instances.

Contributing
------------

Contributions to **img-proof** are welcome and encouraged. See `CONTRIBUTING`_ for
info on getting started.

.. _CONTRIBUTING: https://github.com/SUSE-Enceladus/img-proof/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md

Issues/Enhancements
-------------------

Please submit issues and requests to `Github`_.

.. _Github: https://github.com/SUSE-Enceladus/img-proof/issues

License
-------

Copyright (c) 2019 SUSE LLC.

Distributed under the terms of GPL-3.0+ license, see `LICENSE`_ for details.

.. _LICENSE: https://github.com/SUSE-Enceladus/img-proof/blob/master/LICENSE
