docs/start.asciidoc, before:

= Getting Started
:toc:

=== Requirements

* apache-libcloud
* azurectl
* Click
* cryptography
* paramiko
* pycrypto
* pytest
* PyYaml
* testinfra

== Installation

To install the package use the following commands as root:

[source]
----
zypper ar http://download.opensuse.org/repositories/Cloud:/Tools/<distribution>
zypper refresh
zypper in python3-ipa
----

Or you can install the latest development version from github:

[source]
----
# latest source
pip install git+https://github.com/SUSE/ipa.git

# specific branch or release
pip install git+https://github.com/SUSE/ipa.git@{branch/release}
----

See
link:https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/reference/pip_install/#vcs-support[PyPi docs]
for more information on vcs support.

== Configuration

The framework configuration file is ini format ~/.config/ipa/config. Anything
specific to the test framework can be found in this file. Thus anything
that is cloud framework independent such as the tests dir and results dir.

To override the default configuration location the CLI option `-C` or `--config`
is provided.

The following is an example configuration file. The ipa section is required
and the provider sections are optional and can be [ec2], [gce] or [azure].

[source,ini]
----
[ipa]
tests=~/ipa/tests/
results=~/ipa/results/

[ec2]
region=us-west-1
----

=== Azure

*ipa* shares the azurectl configuration file. See the
link:https://github.com/SUSE/azurectl#configuration-file[azurectl readme] for
more info on the location and format.

=== EC2

For testing EC2 instances *ipa* will use the ec2utils configuration file
located at ~/.ec2utils.conf. See
link:https://github.com/SUSE/Enceladus/tree/master/ec2utils[ec2utils] for an
example configuration file.

=== GCE

GCE uses service accounts for authentication. See
link:https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/access/create-enable-service-accounts-for-instances[GCE docs]
for more info on creating a service account json file. The file must include
a key pair for proper authentication. Additional configuration options can
be placed in the `gce` section of the `ipa` configuration file.

=== Provider Configuration location

To override the provider configuration the CLI option, `--provider-config` is
available.

== Usage

=== CLI

`ipa test`

Test image in the given framework using the supplied test files.

[source]
----
# Testing an image in EC2

> ipa test -i {image-id} \
  -a {account} \
  --provider-config ~/.ec2utils.conf \
  --no-cleanup \
  -d openSUSE_Leap \
  ec2 test_image

Starting instance
Running tests /home/{user}/ipa/tests/test_image.py
PASSED tests=1|pass=1|fail=0|error=0
----

[source]
----
# Testing an image in Azure

> ipa test -i {image-id} \
  --no-cleanup \
  -d openSUSE_Leap \
  --ssh-private-key {azure-ssh-key-file} \
  azure test_image

Starting instance
Running tests /home/{user}/ipa/tests/test_image.py
PASSED tests=1|pass=1|fail=0|error=0
----

[source]
----
# Testing an image in GCE

> ipa test -i {image-id} \
  --no-cleanup \
  -d openSUSE_Leap \
  gce test_image

Starting instance
Running tests /home/{user}/ipa/tests/test_image.py
PASSED tests=1|pass=1|fail=0|error=0
----

==== Verbosity

The CLI output verbosity can be controlled via options:

`--debug`

Display debug level logging to console.

`--verbose`

(Default) Display logging info to console.

`--quiet`

Silence logging information on test run.

==== Cleanup

By default the instance will be terminated if all tests pass. If a test fails
the instance will remain running. This behavior can be changed with the
`--cleanup` and `--no-cleanup` flags.

`--cleanup`

Instance will be terminated in all cases.

`--no-cleanup`

Instance will remain running in all cases.

==== ANSI Style

By default the command line output will be colored. To disable color output
use the `--no-color` option.

==== Early Exit

The early exit option will stop the test run on the first failure.
`--early-exit` is passed to Pytest as `-x`. See
link:https://docs.pytest.org/en/latest/usage.html#stopping-after-the-first-or-n-failures[Pytest docs]
for more info.

=== Code

*ipa* primarily provides a CLI tool for testing images. However, the endpoints
can be imported directly in Python 3 code through the controller.

[source,python]
----
from ipa.ipa_controller import test_image

status, results = test_image(
    provider,
    access_key_id,
    ...
    storage_container,
    tests
)
----

Commit message:

Update readme/docs to note Azure config changes.

docs/start.asciidoc, after:

= Getting Started
:toc:

=== Requirements

* apache-libcloud
* azurectl
* Click
* cryptography
* paramiko
* pycrypto
* pytest
* PyYaml
* testinfra

== Installation

To install the package use the following commands as root:

[source]
----
zypper ar http://download.opensuse.org/repositories/Cloud:/Tools/<distribution>
zypper refresh
zypper in python3-ipa
----

Or you can install the latest development version from github:

[source]
----
# latest source
pip install git+https://github.com/SUSE/ipa.git

# specific branch or release
pip install git+https://github.com/SUSE/ipa.git@{branch/release}
----

See
link:https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/reference/pip_install/#vcs-support[PyPi docs]
for more information on vcs support.

== Configuration

The framework configuration file is ini format ~/.config/ipa/config. Anything
specific to the test framework can be found in this file. Thus anything
that is cloud framework independent such as the tests dir and results dir.

To override the default configuration location the CLI option `-C` or `--config`
is provided.

The following is an example configuration file. The ipa section is required
and the provider sections are optional and can be [ec2], [gce] or [azure].

[source,ini]
----
[ipa]
tests=~/ipa/tests/
results=~/ipa/results/

[ec2]
region=us-west-1
----

=== Azure

There is no additional configuration file used for Azure. All options
should be placed in the *ipa* config file.

=== EC2

For testing EC2 instances *ipa* will use the ec2utils configuration file
located at ~/.ec2utils.conf. See
link:https://github.com/SUSE/Enceladus/tree/master/ec2utils[ec2utils] for an
example configuration file.

=== GCE

GCE uses service accounts for authentication. See
link:https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/access/create-enable-service-accounts-for-instances[GCE docs]
for more info on creating a service account json file. The file must include
a key pair for proper authentication. Additional configuration options can
be placed in the `gce` section of the `ipa` configuration file.

=== Provider Configuration location

To override the provider configuration the CLI option, `--provider-config` is
available.

== Usage

=== CLI

`ipa test`

Test image in the given framework using the supplied test files.

[source]
----
# Testing an image in EC2

> ipa test -i {image-id} \
  -a {account} \
  --provider-config ~/.ec2utils.conf \
  --no-cleanup \
  -d openSUSE_Leap \
  ec2 test_image

Starting instance
Running tests /home/{user}/ipa/tests/test_image.py
PASSED tests=1|pass=1|fail=0|error=0
----

[source]
----
# Testing an image in Azure

> ipa test -i {image-id} \
  --no-cleanup \
  -d openSUSE_Leap \
  --ssh-private-key {azure-ssh-key-file} \
  azure test_image

Starting instance
Running tests /home/{user}/ipa/tests/test_image.py
PASSED tests=1|pass=1|fail=0|error=0
----

[source]
----
# Testing an image in GCE

> ipa test -i {image-id} \
  --no-cleanup \
  -d openSUSE_Leap \
  gce test_image

Starting instance
Running tests /home/{user}/ipa/tests/test_image.py
PASSED tests=1|pass=1|fail=0|error=0
----

==== Verbosity

The CLI output verbosity can be controlled via options:

`--debug`

Display debug level logging to console.

`--verbose`

(Default) Display logging info to console.

`--quiet`

Silence logging information on test run.

==== Cleanup

By default the instance will be terminated if all tests pass. If a test fails
the instance will remain running. This behavior can be changed with the
`--cleanup` and `--no-cleanup` flags.

`--cleanup`

Instance will be terminated in all cases.

`--no-cleanup`

Instance will remain running in all cases.

==== ANSI Style

By default the command line output will be colored. To disable color output
use the `--no-color` option.

==== Early Exit

The early exit option will stop the test run on the first failure.
`--early-exit` is passed to Pytest as `-x`. See
link:https://docs.pytest.org/en/latest/usage.html#stopping-after-the-first-or-n-failures[Pytest docs]
for more info.

=== Code

*ipa* primarily provides a CLI tool for testing images. However, the endpoints
can be imported directly in Python 3 code through the controller.

[source,python]
----
from ipa.ipa_controller import test_image

status, results = test_image(
    provider,
    access_key_id,
    ...
    storage_container,
    tests
)
----
